adr: argocd does not manage its own namespace (#708)
elastisys/compliantkubernetes: docs/adr/0044-argocd-managing-its-own-namespace.md

# ArgoCD is not allowed to manage its own namespace.

* Status: Accepted
* Deciders: Arch Meeting
* Date: 2023-10-12

## Context and Problem Statement

Currently, ArgoCD is setup in namespaced mode. We give it a [list of namespaces](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/declarative-setup/#clusters) that argo should manage and a list of permissions that it has on those namespaces through argocd's [inclusions](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/declarative-setup/#resource-exclusioninclusion) and kubernetes rbac to the service to back this. This service account has a larger set of permissions than a developer's most privileged accounts do.

> For whichever reason when an Application Developer wants to deploy resources other than apps, applicationsets and appprojects into argocd-system namespace via ArgoCD. It would fail since argocd-system is not a managed namespace.

Reviewer: Maybe too much ArgoCD but I think it'll work
```suggestion
If an Application Developer wants to deploy resources other than ArgoCD `apps`, `applicationSets`, and `appProjects` into the `argocd-system` namespace via ArgoCD itself, it will fail since `argocd-system` is not a managed namespace by ArgoCD.
```

> Do we want to make argocd-system a managed namespace ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do we want to make `argocd-system` a managed namespace by AgoCD?
```

## Decision Drivers

* We want to maintain Platform security and stability.
* We want to find a solution which is scalable and minimizes Platform Administrator burden.
* We want to best serve the Application Developers.
* We want to make the Platform Administrator life easier.
* We want to avoid Infrastructure Provider dependent implementation sprawl.

## Considered Options

> 1. Yes, we make argocd manage its own namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Yes, we make ArgoCD manage its own namespace.
```

>     - This would mean, technically an Application Developer might be able to deploy a malicious pod and read secrets in argocd-system namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Technically, this would mean that and Application Developer might be able to deploy a malicious pod and read secrets in `argocd-system` namespace.
```

This service account has a larger set of permissions than a developer's most privileged accounts do.

If an Application Developer wants to deploy resources other than ArgoCD `apps`, `applicationSets`, and `appProjects` into the `argocd-system` namespace via ArgoCD itself, it will fail since `argocd-system` is not a managed namespace in ArgoCD.

Do we want to make `argocd-system` a managed namespace in our ArgoCD offering ?

## Decision Drivers

* We want to maintain Platform security and stability.
* We want to find a solution which is scalable and minimizes Platform Administrator burden.
* We want to best serve the Application Developers.
* We want to make the Platform Administrator life easier.
* We want to avoid Infrastructure Provider dependent implementation sprawl.

## Considered Options

1. Yes, we make ArgoCD manage its own namespace.

>     - Technically, this would mean that an Application Developer might be able to deploy a malicious pod and read secrets in `argocd-system` namespace.

Reviewer: This should probably be a postitive outcome of the No option instead of being written here.
```suggestion
    - Technically, this would mean that an Application Developer might be able to deploy a malicious pod and read secrets in `argocd-system` namespace.
```

2. No, we do not make ArgoCD manage its own namespace.

## Decision Outcome

Chosen option:

- No, we do not allow argocd to manage its own namespace.
    - ArgoCD, through an Application Developer's configuration, should not deploy standard Kubernetes resources (such as pods or secrets) directly into its own namespace. If there is a requirement for such deployments, it should be initiated through a service ticket, ensuring that it undergoes thorough security and stability assessments to prevent any compromises to the platform.

### Positive Consequences

- We get to keep ArgoCD secure.
- Any malicious user cannot exploit a potential bug in ArgoCD to deploy resources into `argocd-system` namespace.

### Negative Consequences

- An Application Developer may also not be able to deploy standard Kubernetes resources via ArgoCD into `argocd-system` namespaces.

>     - This should be okay, since it is the intended role of the Application Developer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - This should not count as a negative consequence, because our current security stance is that Application Developers should not be supposed to deploy into the `argocd-system` Namespace at all.
```

Author: That sounds correct !!

# ArgoCD is not allowed to manage its own namespace.

* Status: Accepted
* Deciders: Arch Meeting
* Date: 2023-10-12

## Context and Problem Statement

Currently, ArgoCD is setup in namespaced mode.

> We give it a [list of namespaces](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/declarative-setup/#clusters) that ArgoCD should manage and a list of permissions that it has on those namespaces through ArgoCD's [inclusions](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/declarative-setup/#resource-exclusioninclusion) and kubernetes rbac to the service to back this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We give it a [list of Namespaces](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/declarative-setup/#clusters) that ArgoCD should manage and a list of permissions that it has on those Namespaces through ArgoCD's [inclusions](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/declarative-setup/#resource-exclusioninclusion) and Kubernetes RBAC to the service to back this.
```

This service account has a larger set of permissions than a developer's most privileged accounts do.

> If an Application Developer wants to deploy resources other than ArgoCD `apps`, `applicationSets`, and `appProjects` into the `argocd-system` namespace via ArgoCD itself, it will fail since `argocd-system` is not a managed namespace by ArgoCD.

Reviewer: Is perhaps "in" a better word to use, or perhaps "is not a namespace managed by ArgoCD." 🤔 Anyways I'll let you be the judge of that :)

```suggestion
If an Application Developer wants to deploy resources other than ArgoCD `apps`, `applicationSets`, and `appProjects` into the `argocd-system` namespace via ArgoCD itself, it will fail since `argocd-system` is not a managed namespace in ArgoCD.
```

Do we want to make `argocd-system` a managed namespace in our ArgoCD offering ?

## Decision Drivers

* We want to maintain Platform security and stability.
* We want to find a solution which is scalable and minimizes Platform Administrator burden.
* We want to best serve the Application Developers.
* We want to make the Platform Administrator life easier.
* We want to avoid Infrastructure Provider dependent implementation sprawl.

## Considered Options

1. Yes, we make ArgoCD manage its own namespace.

>     - Technically, this would mean that and Application Developer might be able to deploy a malicious pod and read secrets in `argocd-system` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Technically, this would mean that Application Developer might be able to deploy a malicious pod and read secrets in `argocd-system` namespace.
```

> 2. No, we do not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. No, we do not make ArgoCD manage its own namespace.
```

## Decision Outcome

Chosen option:

- No, we do not allow argocd to manage its own namespace.

>     - ArgoCD, through an Application Developer's configuration, should not deploy standard Kubernetes resources (such as pods or secrets) directly into its own namespace. If there is a requirement for such deployments, it should be initiated through a service ticket, ensuring that it undergoes thorough security and stability assessments to prevent any compromise to the product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - ArgoCD, through an Application Developer's configuration, should not deploy standard Kubernetes resources (such as pods or secrets) directly into its own namespace. If there is a requirement for such deployments, it should be initiated through a service ticket, ensuring that it undergoes thorough security and stability assessments to prevent any compromises to the platform.
```

### Positive Consequences

- We get to keep ArgoCD secure.

> - Any malicious user cannot use any potential bug in ArgoCD to deploy resources into `argocd-system` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Any malicious user cannot exploit a potential bug in ArgoCD to deploy resources into `argocd-system` namespace.
```

### Negative Consequences

-  An Application Developer may also not be able to deploy standard kubernetes resources via ArgoCD.

>     - Which should be okay, since that is the intended role of the Application Developer.

Reviewer 2: It is strange to start an item in a bulleted list with a subordinate clause, so start it with something other than "Which...". 

In addition, I don't quite follow. It reads like it's saying that the intended role of Application Developers is not to be able to deploy standard Kubernetes resources (via Argo CD). Huh?

Author: The intended role of the App Developer does not include permissions to deploying standard kubernetes resources into Argocd's namespace. I'll clarify this.
